nowhere else in the surfing world can
you risk your life is often and leading
the charge at secondary pipeline is
Brian Buckley
yeah I mean I started surfing I was 853
245 years ago brother tried to drown me
at age eight at Newport Beach it was
about a nine eight fifty pound maybe
sixty pound longboard and you know I'll
curled up on my neck and swallowed a
bunch of water and said I'm not gonna
serve you know then I tried it about
start raft surfing and playing around
Laguna Beach and learn how to stand up
on these hard rubber rafts I just turned
12 and that's when I really started
getting the feel of what it's like to
ride a wave even on a raft and we rode
these things you know a hard to ride
shore break and so when we progressed to
a longboard it was easy you know I mean
of course you had the MacTavish style
baby bottoms and that was my first
attempt at a board was cutting my
brother's 10-3 down to a 72 just by
cutting the tail into a big diamond and
then shaping about two feet of the tail
into a V and sticking a big green o
single fin you know a long flex pin on
it and I rode that for a while of course
it didn't work that great but compared
to a longboard it was radical you know
but that was kind of the beginning I was
hooked you know and some friends and
whatnot we traded shaping and glass and
you know doing all the stuff and then
court says hey we're gonna trade off
with the planer and I thought not
interested yeah I did my own boards I
love your boards you know I'm having fun
he goes 'next time you get a board we're
gonna trade off with the planer and I
got in there and he's like hands me the
planer and and uh probably biggest
mistake he ever made
you know cuz I just loved it you know I
thought okay this is fun made my own
pipeline board now this is you know and
he helped me with a few boards and then
after that he couldn't get me out of a
shaping room you know I got there 73 he
was 73 for winter and a half because I
was never considered myself a pro surfer
at all you know I was very average
surfer I got into surfing doing a bottom
turn and standing there and getting in a
tube I mean it really didn't take a lot
of talent maybe you
now screw loose you know for some guys
but you know I I guess I had a desire
there that I wasn't aware of till I got
my first wave at pipe which I actually I
can remember very well and I was hooked
those two it it's all I thought about
that point on I just all I did was think
about pipeline for a long time ten years
before I left for a few years I came
back and did another few more years you
know it's like 15 years of that or
something that lived right in front of
it Lopez my neighbor and other big guys
over here you know jumping off the wall
and going first ones mine you know and
him running back in the house like a kid
and grabbing his board you know being
the first guys out was just the coolest
thing you know and I remember putting
quad on my 7/8 pipe gun and coming out
of the barrel like a shot out of a
cannon you know I mean I so my god
there's definitely something to this you
know bet the pins are a little too big
and and the rocker I don't know if it
was right and V bottoms and all but you
know I definitely saw something there I
switched quads I went all quad on
everything and I got you know and pipe
masters you know seventh place or
whatever on quads you know no one was
riding quads you know except for a
Australian guy that brought him over
wasn't Wynton Glenn Wynton thank you you
deserve it you know he needs to be
mentioned because I mean he got that
thing fired up and I mean I was full
bore quad for a long time well how long
did that last year year and a half maybe
two years max before it all got blown
out of the water with a bunch of lousy
quads you know that people made and when
you get a bad one you go back to
something else you know not everyone
will try it twice
you know there's spending money on a
surfboard so I think we lost a lot of
time there it could have been working on
the quad this whole time and had it so
dialed by now you know all different
ideas came into play through in a
blender and who know
was coming out of that era you know this
last ten years has been great
it's very experiment you know years of
experimentation and it's been great to
put you know modern-day bottoms in with
quads and they were faster and looser
without the tail fin I to me
it's just a better thruster you know the
way they feel to me and the performance
ones of course you know there's retro
styles there's all different styles and
they all they're all good for something
you know different strokes whatever this
shot of bryan buckley filmed at normal
speed shows that on a 30-foot drop it
can take a good 10 seconds just to reach
the bottom of the web
big wave riding is a hard thing to
describe to someone who has only
experienced large waves once or twice a
year at their home break just standing
on the beach watching monster waves can
give you a terrible case of a butterfly
to these unsuspecting visitors surfing
the size and power of sunset or pipeline
quickly becomes a survival situation